---
title: A review on food and morning rituals
date: 2016-02-29 12:38:00 Z
---

*I decided to focus on my food and my morning rituals this February. Why you might wonder? Because I wanted to learn more about food. Which vitamins and minerals can be found in which food. I felt like it was important to me to know which foods are good to combine plus also, knowing which foods are important for me to eat, being a vegan. Another topic I wanted to focus on this month were my morning rituals. I am a morning person, I tend to wake up at 07:00 AM without an alarm and I really enjoy each morning. But I felt like I could get more out of my ‘early’ mornings.*

* The list pictured below is not a complete list. I made this list for myself as a reminder of foods which, in my opinion, are important to me and my health. 

image
It might sound silly but at the beginning of this month I truly started my research at the very beginning. I never really paid much attention to my food in the sense of how they could benefit my health and just simply which vitamins and minerals can be found inside them. So, the foods I eat regularly, I started organizing them into the carbs, proteins and fats sections. (Seen in the lists pictured above.) I have to say, it still sometimes confuses me. There is so much information to be gathered and of course, I continue to learn more and more with each day. After that I started to research the vitamins and minerals. It definitely feels like since starting this journey of gathering all this information, with each new thing I learn there comes along another and another and another thing as well. Vitamin A can be found in carrots, pumpkin and sweet potato.  Vitamins B can be found in whole grains, potatoes, bananas, lentils, chili peppers and beans. In oranges, red and green peppers, kiwi, grapefruits, strawberries, Brussels sprouts and cantaloupe vitamin C can be found. Vitamin D? Go enjoy the sun! Let it warm up your cheeks! But! Apparently it is also found in mushrooms. A vitamin E rich food? Almonds! But also other nuts, sunflowers seeds and tomatoes. Vitamin K can be found in leafy greens! So eat your kale, spinach, Brussels sprouts and broccoli! One of the reasons why I decided to dedicate February to food is because I wanted to learn more about vitamin B12. Vitamin B12 is the only vitamin which cannot be found in plant based food. (Cyanocobalamin is currently the form of vitamin B12 that is recommended by vegan nutrition experts.) I realized I needed to learn more about this topic and so I did. I have never, ever taken any supplements before and I wasn’t planning on changing that. I started researching what the consequences could be when one has a lack of vitamin B12 and they are serious. My principles on not taking any supplements are strong but so are my principles on veganism. When I decided for the benefit of my health and thus for myself to start taking vitamin B12 supplements I (of course) wanted them to be vegan approved and as organic as possible. I want to treat my body in the way it deserves. Making conscious choices and living consciously and healthy is a big, big part of that.

image
OK so onto the other part I wanted to focus on this month, my morning rituals. Oh and those three words ‘my morning rituals’ to me already sound so soft, welcoming and like the first golden light in the morning brushing against one’s pink cheeks. Or like fresh written words in a diary.

First off my morning rituals are not a big ritual. There is no one or two whole hour thing going on. It are small little things which together make up my morning ritual. So like I said I wake up each morning ‘round about 07:00 AM. Without an alarm, especially now, when the sun has started to rise a bit earlier already, my body is just ready to wake up. I start off with a glass of water, always. Than four out of the seven mornings the next thing I do are my ‘exercises’ which take about 10 minutes. I have trouble calling them ‘exercises’ even though, I guess, that is what they are. I mainly started doing them because it wakes me up nicely, or maybe in better words it, to me, is a good and fresh start to each morning. Those 10 minutes make me appreciate my body and it capabilities just that bit more, you know? It is like making that connection with my body again and again. Which is very fulfilling. But I had to remind myself of that as well. The words pictured above in the picture ‘Make things happen’ truly remind me of that. Everything is up to myself, luckily. 

I get dressed, wash my face and than the next thing I do is make myself some breakfast and I am seriously always, always excited for breakfast. I think breakfast is my favorite meal of the day. Oats, fruits, some nuts and seeds and some rice milk (here in Italy). I just really like it. I enjoy it so much. I usually than try to write down in my diary what I want and have to do that day. Hello beautiful morning, hello new start of the day!

During my search this month I stumbled upon some handy tricks and tips and some other general info. For example omega-3. I never knew much about omega-3 and while on my search I kind of stumbled upon it. There are three important omega-3 fatty acids: ALA, EPA and DHA. Plus I read that the body can convert ALA into EPA and DHA. ALA can be found in a variety of plant products and also in soy, walnuts, canola oil, flaxseeds and their oil, hempseed oil, camelina oil and chia seed oil. EPA can be found in small amounts in seaweed. But, as written above, the human body can produce EPA out of ALA and out of DHA. DHA can also be found be in small amounts in seaweed and again the body can convert EPA into DHA.  Why is omega-3 so important? It makes up cell membranes, keeps the nervous system functioning, keeps cholesterol levels in check, and it fights off inflammation. 

Another thing I found were nutrients and antinutrients. I was a bit confused about what antinutrients are, where they are found and if they are a real ‘threat’. So again, I began my search. This is what the internet told me;  “Antinutrients are natural or synthetic compounds found in a variety of foods — especially grains, beans, legumes and nuts — that interfere with the absorption of vitamins, minerals and other nutrients. Antinutrients can also be found in plant roots, vegetables, leaves and fruits, although these are at much lower levels and usually have benefits as opposed to mostly harmful effects.” The 5 best known antinutrients are Phytic Acid, Tannins, Lectins, Protease inhibitors and Calcium oxalate. First of what I found was that many different types of seed foods (all grains are really the seeds of cereal grasses) contain antinutrients. Why they contain them is because it kind of is like a defense mechanism. The antinutrients help repel pests, bugs and other predators so the seeds are able to live on and reproduce and thus make it difficult for us to absorb the vitamins, minerals and other nutrients. The next thing I wondered was ‘So how can I reduce the antinutrients in my body?’ Soaking, sprouting and fermenting seed foods are the answer because most of the antinutrients are found in the skin. Either grains, nuts, beans or legumes, it makes them easier to digest and the body can access all of their nutrition better. So we have been soaking our beans, lentils, chickpeas etc in water overnight! Sprouting is a period in the life cycle of plants when they start emerging from the seed. This process increases the availability of nutrients in seeds, grains and legumes. Sprouting takes a few days. Fermentation is also an option and it is an ancient method originally used to preserve food. It is a natural process that occurs when microorganisms, such as bacteria or yeasts, start digesting carbs in food. Good examples of fermented foods are soy sauce, cocoa, coffee, beer, wine and sourdough bread.

image
The next thing I stumbled upon were the 9 essential amino acids. We need to eat foods which contain these acids because our body cannot produce it herself. Here I listed all nine amino acids and in which foods they can be found.
Lysine - oats, nuts, seeds and legumes.
Tryptohan - bananas, rice, oats, nuts, lintels, seeds and legumes.
Leucine - almonds, cashew nuts, rice, chickpeas, lintels and beans.
Valine - brown rice, mushrooms, almonds, cashew nuts, peanuts, sesame seeds and lintels.
Isoleucine - beans, almonds, cashew nuts, chickpeas and sunflower seeds. 
Methionine - oats, bean sprouts, nuts, avocado, seeds, sesame seeds and lintels.
Threonine - almonds, peanuts, beans, oats, nuts and legumes.
Phenylalanine - oats, nuts and lintels.
Histidine - peanuts and sesame seeds.

And last but not least I found some more gluten free options! Of course oats, buckwheat, kasha (which is peeled and roasted buckwheat) rice, quinoa and millet are gluten free and wonderful options. Also corn flour is a wonderful gluten free flour to make delicious things with like arepas and nacho chips! But I also learned about sorghum, amaranth and teff. Which I had never heard of before. This website explains it quite wonderfully.

This post turned out to be a bit longer than I was expecting but I discovered and learned lots this month as well. February you have been a real good one.