---
title: Puglia, Italy
date: 2016-02-01 18:45:00 Z
tags:
- "#TomandLisadoEurope"
---

*On the 8th of January we flew from Budapest, Hungary to Bari, Italy within an hour and a half. When we stepped out of the plane, a warm breeze and the bright sun welcomed us. People in front of me, seemed grateful as well when I saw them look up at the sun and happily made the ‘ahhhh’ sound. And I could not have agreed more. Hi Italy, you are beautiful.*
<!--more-->
When Tom and I were looking for a host to go to after Budapest we knew we wanted to go to south Italy because neither of us had ever been before. The Provence Puglia seemed like the perfect place to go and really, it was.\
\
From Bari we headed for Lecce and from there we took another train to Gagliano del Capo. The people we stayed with were closely located to Marina San Gregorio and from their house we could see the beautiful sea. It felt like it was Spring! Everything was in bloom. Wild flowers in all kinds of beautiful colors. Oh, my heart felt extremely happy. The area is filled or maybe, in better words, exists out of the endless olive tree groves. I thought southern Spain had lots of olive trees, well this, this amount blew my mind. Plus, due to this everything was green, always. It is always green because olive trees are evergreens.\
\
I saw some, seriously impressive, huge olive trees during our train ride. They look so ancient yet so strong. At the place we stayed at, they had olive trees as well, of course. Asking if they produce their own olive oil, is almost silly. Of course they do! And when you taste it, oh all the super market bought olive oil seems like a bad joke.\
\
We stayed with Doriana and her father for two weeks. She organizes art exhibitions and the red thread running through this is sustainability. If you would like to learn more about what she is doing go [here](http://t.umblr.com/redirect?z=http%3A%2F%2Fartemidesgarden.wix.com%2Fartemidesgarden&t=ZDVlYzQ0ZmZhNWFhOGRmNjEzM2FlNmVlZDRjOWI1ODMyYWExMGZkMSwyRmpOMTk3cg%3D%3D). I helped her, with creating a brochure for an upcoming exhibition, which will take place on February 12th.

We visited Lecce a beautiful, cute little city and stayed there for two nights in a hotel. Tom and I did quite some wandering around. The typical narrow Italian streets keep on being a treat over again and again. When seeing cars drive through these streets I am always a bit baffled how they are able to drive through. According to Tom the Italians really do know how to make a proper coffee. When you order a coffee, there is no question about milk. No, when you order a coffee you get an espresso. A good strong coffee with a beautiful golden layer of crema. I have to trust Tom on this matter since I do not drink coffee at all.

I think it is quite obvious that as soon as we arrived in Italy we were stoked about getting us some pizza! We had a pizza at **Mama Braceria Trattoria**. On their billboard outside I noticed they also do gluten free pizzas. So this seemed the perfect place to go and eat some! We ordered the vegetarian pizza (without cheese) and added some rocket on top. It was delicious. You can find them at*Piazzetta R. Orsini, Lecce*. Close to there you also find **Doppiozero **a trendy and fresh looking coffee place. I loved their lamps, they are made out of glass bottles. It is the perfect place to enjoy a coffee or tea and to just relax.*Via Guglielmo Paladini 2, Lecce*. We went to Lecce on Saturday and left on Monday in the afternoon. On Sunday we decided to enjoy a good lunch at**Vita**. In Lecce, this is the only place we found which offered vegan options as well. We btw, used [happycow ](http://t.umblr.com/redirect?z=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.happycow.net&t=YWU0YWIzOGQ2N2ZlNWYxYzZiYjU2YzkwOTJjZGRmNmQ1YmQyNzc1MiwyRmpOMTk3cg%3D%3D)to find this restaurant. This restaurant just opened its doors in 2015 and is worth a visit! *Via XXV Luglio 59, Lecce*.

I was not expecting Puglia, or at least the part we visited to be so flat. On our train ride is was either endless groves of olive trees or we could see for miles and miles on end. I learned about the trulli houses, which can be found in Puglia. It is a traditional, dry stone house which means they were built without using any cement. I tasted and realized nothing, nothing can compare to self produced, real Italian olive oil. Plus wild flowers officially stole my heart.\
\
*Enjoy your start of February! (Wait, what it is February already?) Enjoy the cooler air, the sun and nice hot cups of tea. Because nothing is as good as warming up to some warm camomile tea after you have been walking through the cold.*