---
title: Naples a quick city trip
date: 2016-02-17 18:50:00 Z
tags:
- "#TomandLisadoEurope"
---

*On February 12th Tom and I went to Naples and came back the next day on the 13th. From the town close to us called San Fele we went by bus. We left at 5:15 in the morning and arrived in Naples at 8:30. We had to wake up early but we could sleep during the bus ride and it was a nice and relaxed ride as well. We decided to go to Naples for Tom’s birthday which was on the 9th. It definitely was an interesting trip!*
<!--more-->
We got super lucky with the weather. The weather forecast told us there would be lots of rain but in fact only during both mornings it drizzled a little but that was all! Oh yeah and on every street corner we were unwillingly bathed in Valentine hearts, flowers and balloons. I sometimes forget, when I have not been to a city for a while, the whole marketing, money making game. We thought strawberries would be a tasty, sweet little gift to ourselves to celebrate love so we decided to buy some on Saturday. As it turned out, even the strawberries were not fond of Valentine’s day. At least that is how I interpreted it because they decided to turn brown on Sunday the 14th.

Do I have any tips on where to go when in Naples? Definitely! Here are my favorites. On Friday morning we went to **CamBIOvita** a cute coffeeshop, breakfast and lunch restaurant and health food store all in one! It was the perfect place to start off our trip in Naples. It is cozy and Tom and I enjoyed some camomile tea and coffee, oh yeah and we shared a vegan chocolate-coconut slice of cake which was really delicious! You can find them at *Via Carlo Poerio 100A*. We ate lunch at **Cavoli Nostri** which is a vegetarian and vegan restaurant. The food was really good. I never ate seitan before and decided to give it a try! Super tasty with pumpkin slices, rocket and a sauce with a slight citrus-y taste to it. Tom and I shared some potato wedges out of the oven served with homemade sauces which were extremely tasty. We also shared a vegan tiramisu. Vegan tiramisu in Italy? Hello dessert heaven! They are located at\*Via Palepoli 32next to the sea pretty much. In the evening we went to a health food store called **Tropical Fruits dal Campo per Voi**. We needed some oat flakes and quinoa. So this was the perfect store to go to. They of course sold tons more but this was all we needed. The store is small but well stocked and can be found at *Via Montesanto 6*.

For lunch the next day we went to **Pizzeria Starita**. We decided to go there because they do gluten free pizzas as well! Perfect! It was really delicious and if you find yourself in Naples go and visit this pizzeria! As a vegan and being in Italy pizza might be one of the easiest options to go for. Either order a pizza without cheese or like I did order the pizza called ‘Marinara’. This pizza exists out of tomato sauce, garlic, olive oil, oregano and basil. *Via Materdei 27*. We stumbled upon **Prosud**a 'package free’ store. I am all for less plastic and these kind of stores, in my opinion, hold the future. So inspiring! We bought some walnuts, hazelnuts and pumpkin seeds! *Via Mezzocannone 113*.

Why I like going to cities? Because they are a nice change to the country side. Plus they are filled with lots of inspiration to me and there are small, interesting corners, colors, graffiti, people everywhere! I love to just walk around and take in its vibe. Which by the way was a bit of a strange one in Naples. Or maybe, not so much strange but hard to define for me. In a way it had a vibe like most cities and at the same time it also had this tougher edge to it. There, I found, a big(ger) contrast between rich and poor. It made all these for example clothing, shoe and beauty stores with all their luxury products silly. It once again brought up the question 'What is really important?’ And I could not really shake off that thought.

Colors, details, flowers, graffiti or in better words, street art. Give me time to walk around and I am happy. Extremely happy.

Because we did not have much time in Naples we decided to not plan everything and to not fill up our one and a half day with all these places we would have had to run to. Instead we decided to just wander around and see what we would find. Of course, of course we did want to see the sea. We had a wonderful view overlooking Capri and the volcano Vesuvius.

Maybe a bit strange but we also visit the **Fontanelle Cemetery** which can be found at *Via Fontanelle 80*. It was an interesting place. The cemetery is not your usual cemetery. All the skulls and bones are piled on top of one another. So no buried skeletons here. The cemetery is located in a cave and according to Wikipedia 'when the Spanish moved into Naples in the early 16th century, there was already some concern over where to locate cemeteries and moves had been taken to locate graves outside of the city walls. Many Neapolitans, however, insisted on being interred in their local churches. To make space in the churches for the newly, interred, undertakers started removing earlier remains outside the city to the cave, the future Fontanelle cemetery. The remains were interred shallowly and then joined in 1656 by thousand of anonymous corpses, victims of the great plague of that year.’

We enjoyed our quick trip to Naples. We did quite some walking, ate wonderful food even enjoyed the thousands of mopeds and the continues honking, *everywhere* and *all the time*. There is magic to be found from going to the country side to the busy city life. I would have liked to stay longer though. Even if it would have been just for one extra day because I think then the trip would have felt a bit more relaxed but you know, kinda whatever, whatever!

*Guys, life is beautiful.*