---
title: Rome city trip
date: 2016-04-14 14:01:00 Z
tags:
- "#TomandLisadoEurope"
---

*Our stay in Basilicata had come to an end and on Friday March 4th we left early in the morning to catch our bus to Rome. The bus ride was quite pleasant. I simply love it when I am moving, heading to a new place, watching the sun rise and listening to some music. ‘Round about 10am we arrived in Rome. There we were, we left the quiet, peaceful countryside behind and all of a sudden we found ourselves in buzzing and busy Rome.*

We stayed in an airbnb close to the main train station and so buses, trams trains and the metro were all a stone throw away. What was handy was, Tom and I bought ourselves tickets which were valid for a week (Carta Settimanale) and they are valid for all transport! I was a bit worried about all the noise at night though, but the building we were staying in was big and it turned out our airbnb was not right on the street side. Which I was quite happy about. We could not check in before 1pm so we decided to check out a vegan bakery called Fratelli Piermattei. Unfortunately they did not have anything gluten free but Tom indulged himself in croissants and sweet pastries. They can be found at Via Matteo Tondi 14.

After we checked in and could get rid off our luggage we headed for the Vatican. Tom and I already decided this trip was probably going to be our most touristy sight seeing trip thus far. But that’s okay, sometimes, that is what one needs to do. I think. We walked to Saint Peter’s and looked and walked around a bit. Quite quickly though we decided to walk over to the Vatican Museum to check out the Sistine Chapel. To be completely honest, of course it was all impressive. All the 'too muchness’ though ended up being way too much for me. All the golden angels and religious painting after painting at the end was all a bit too holy, indoctrinating and too pomp and splendor, if you ask me. Close to the Vatican though, there is Rome’s first all vegan supermarket called **iVegan**! Of course we went there and had a look around and we bought some stuff we needed. They are located at Via Angelo Emo 125. Afterwards we grabbed a bite to eat at an all vegan and raw restaurant called **Ecru**. It was super delicious I had carrot 'spaghetti’ topped with a pesto made out of rocket and walnuts, super delicious! You can find them at Via Acciaioli 9.

The next day on Saturday we had a bit of a more slow morning due to having to wake up early the day before. We decided to kick start our day with some vegan ice cream. But we started our walk off by visiting an indoor market. We went to the **Piazza Vittorio Market**. Whenever we are in a city we love to go to food markets. Being surrounded by all these delicious fruits, veggies, nuts, seeds, legumes, hearing people speak Italian all around you. Oh, it is wonderful! The market can be found at Via Principe Amedeo 184. On our walk to the gelateria we walked passed **Solo Natura Erboristeria**, I would call it an herbalist meets supermarket and they even had fairtrade clothing! I bought myself some vegan lipstick. But truly the whole store is well stocked. Plenty of good and exciting products to choose from! They are located at Via Emanuele Filiberto. I do not know the exact number of the street but they are almost next to the gelateria. The gelateria is called **Olive Dolci**. Hello Heaven! I ordered a cup with Pistachio and Stracciatella ice cream. Go, go visit it when you find yourself in Rome! Via Emanuele Filiberto 140. After we finished our ice cream we continued our walk to the Colosseum. It is beautiful, it is crazy to think for how long it has been there, how many people have seen it, walked around it. It is mind boggling to me. Life, time, history. 

My goodness. We kept on walking and had a bit of a stunning view overlooking the Roman Forum. Around lunch time we went to **Universo Vegano**, a vegan fast food place. It was interesting. Tom ordered a good old burger, vegan style. We liked to at least have eaten this type of vegan food as well, if it is worth going back to? Nah not really. At least not in my opinion. They are located at  Piazza del Paradiso 18. Afterwards by public transport we headed for this cool place called **Citta dell'altra Economica** (City of the Other Economy). It is a renovated 19th century slaughterhouse and there is an organic shop, a fair-trade shop, an organic bar and restaurant, exhibition spaces, a monthly outdoor market and much more. It definitely was an inspiring place! Largo Dino Frisullo, Testaccio, Piramide.

On Sunday we went to the Spanish steps (which I do not know if they are usually quite impressive) but when we were there they were not that impressive due to construction work or whatever it was that was going on there. Most of the staircase was obstructed and due to this you could only walk up the steps along a small and thin section. Then we continued on to the Trevi Fountain. I have to say it was quite nice. We were there in the morning and the way the sunlight hit the fountain was quite magical. The rest of the square was all shade and the fountain really kind of jumped out. We continued walking towards the Pantheon and went inside. The big round hole in the roof, made me imagine what the view must be like when it is dark and the sky is filled with stars. But then again, city lights might kind of ruin that, just a bit. We headed over to the cat sanctuary, which can be found at via di Torre Argentina. It is this big square with old ruins and lots of cats live there basically. There is a small indoor place where volunteers help take care of the cats and feed them. The cats which are inside can come and go whenever they please. Obviously when a cat is very young or old, or sick they will keep them inside. I think, especially Tom found himself in cat heaven. By public transport we headed for another all vegan restaurant named **So what?!** The food’s good, the place looks nice, the people are friendly. A good option for some good vegan food plus it is located in a cool looking neighborhood. Lots of nice and colorful graffiti/street art. Via Ettore Giovenale 56.

On Monday we went to this nice neighborhood called Monti, I visited some secondhand and vintage shops. These were the ones I went to; Pifebo, Via Serpenti 141, HUMANA Vintage, Via Cavour 102 and God Save the Look, Via Panisperna 227A. We had something to drink in this little coffee bar called Monti Bio, where it said 'no table service’ on a chalkboard. We had to make our own tea and coffee, the interior looked super cute and I mean an Aloe Vera greeted us by the front door! We also went into a small little herbalist shop where we could buy some vegan B12 vitamins and I found some pure patchouli oil which I did not buy. But patchouli makes me excited either I buy it or not! On our way back towards our airbnb to catch a bus there, we went to **Grezzo**. A shop selling raw chocolate! (Hello raw, bio, vegan and gluten free chocolate!) There you can buy chocolate, dessert, ice cream and smoothies! Man, this was so good and truly tasting the real taste of chocolate was amazing. Go and find yourself in Heaven! Via Urbana 130. Then we went to a small Indian and vegetarian/vegan restaurant. It was small, cute, tasty and the people were really friendly. The restaurant is called **Vega Food** and a bit hidden away but nothing too difficult. You can find them at Via Monte Giordano 1. 

Tuesday was our last day and by train we were going to head for Napoli to catch our ferry to Panarea. But the train did not leave until 2:30pm so we had some time in the morning. We decided to go and have a look at the health store called **NaturaSi**. The one that was nearest to us is located at Via Sicilia 180. (it is a food chain and several can be found throughout Rome), we wanted to buy some stuff for during our train ride and going to well stocked stores with lots of gluten free, vegan and organic options is always fun in my opinion! Afterwards we grabbed a bit of an earlier lunch, somewhere 'round 12:30pm and of course, we had to finish off our trip to Rome with some pizza! We found a gluten free restaurant! They are called **Restaurante Renovatio**. This way I could eat bruschetta and pizza as well. I normally never miss bread or anything like that but closing off our city trip this way seemed like a good thing to do! They can be found at Piazza del Risorgimento 46.

*I feel like we did do and saw quite some stuff while we were in Rome and we really enjoyed our time as well. Rome was one of those cities I always wanted to visit but it simply had not happened yet. When we were in Basilicata and when I learned Rome was only five hours away by bus, Tom and I knew we just had to go and visit!*