---
title: Panarea, Italy (Perma culture, raised garden beds & a herbal spiral)
date: 2016-05-16 14:16:00 Z
tags:
- "#TomandLisadoEurope"
---

*During our time at Panarea, we worked on three garden projects. Together we built a permaculture garden patch, two raised garden beds and a herbal spiral. In this post I will explain a bit more about what these types of gardens are and why we chose to build them.*
<!--more-->
Tom and I both are very interested in learning more about growing our own food and doing so in a way that works together with nature instead of using her. A permaculture is a perfect example of that. I remember, about, 2 years ago Tom told me about permaculture. ‘A what?’ I thought. Now, two years later, with all the places we visit I hear the term all the time. So for anyone who has no idea of what a permaculture is, I will try my best at explaining it.

**A permaculture** is (in our opinion) a better way of growing crops compared to the traditional way of agriculture. In permaculture looking at the soil and the veggies/fruits/herbs/trees needs is very important. It really is working together with the Earth and letting her do her thing. In a way you could compare it to a forest. This way you make optimum use of the benefits of the plants. For example learn which veggies like to grow next to each other and which are better not placed next to one another. (This is called companion planting.) What on Earth that means? Certain veggies can be beneficial to other veggies. For example plant cabbage near to tomatoes and celery because they repel cabbage worms. Another example is basil. Plant it near to most garden crops because it improves the flavor and growth of garden crops, especially tomatoes and lettuce. Plus it repels mosquitoes.

We started off by building a fence together with the other HelpXers Tasia and Summer. The fence is woven with branches and we did not use any nails or screws. It basically holds itself up! It really was lots of fun to do. It really seemed harder than it was. It was calming and exciting to do at the same time! So onto how do you built a pemaculture. Well, it takes about 4 months for the soil to be ready. (the best time of the year to built is during Fall because rain is what you need!) You start off by weed-wacking all the weeds that might be growing where you want the permaculture to be. It is very important to let the roots be(!). Than the first layer we choose to put on top of the remains of the weeds was cardboard (you could use newspaper as well). The next layer we put on was mulch but you could use woodchips as well. We chose mulch because we were on an island and mulch was what we had available, lots of it. The third layer existed out of straw like stuff which we mixed with donkey poop. Again we did not use ‘real’ straw because we were on an island and sources were limited. To finish it off we put bigger branches on top to keep it from blowing away. It is also very important to soak the layers through and through separately when you’ve got them in place.

Obviously we were not able to get it ready for usage. I mean we won’t be there three months from now. But I will give you an idea of what the next steps should be. After those 4 months check if all the cardboard has gone. If so, it is ready! You start off by creating pathways. Pathways are really important because you do not want to step onto the garden beds. You really want to leave it alone as much as possible(!). Once you have created the pathways and the garden beds, it is time to start thinking about how you wanna seed, plant and/or transplant. I will talk about that a bit later.

What are **raised garden beds**? Well I guess it kinda describes itself, doesn’t it? Why though? Why are the garden beds raised? Again, for preventing people from stepping on them. We once again first strimmed the weeds away and left the roots in the soil. We built wooden frames and than we were gathering soil to put inside the frames. Again, on top we put this straw like stuff. This layer is wonderful for two reasons. 1. It keeps the soil moist for way longer because the sun is not directly shining onto the soil and 2. because it prevents weeds from growing. Now, to be honest Tom and I cheated with the raised garden beds. We 1. did not put cardboard down because we were curious if the thick layer of soil on top of the weeds would do the job. And we also started seeding and transplanting into the garden beds right away because we wanted to have something growing when the hosts would come back. We decided to make little ‘pockets’ into the straw like layer and seed into the soil. You can also decide to have a bit of a thicker layer of straw and make pockets into this layer filled with compost, not reaching the soil. One of the guilds we used while seeding was the so called ‘three sisters’ guild (which is the one of the oldest companion planting guilds). The three sisters are corn, climbing beans and squash. In what way do they benefit each other? Well, the corn provides the support for the climbing beans, the beans take nitrogen from the air and put it into the soil, which is wonderful nutrients for the corn and squash. Plus the squash is like living mulch. It blocks the sunlight so it prevents the soil from drying out and prevents weeds from growing.

*Pictured below; corn and squash seedlings.*

The third and last one we built is a **herbal spiral**. We think it is beautiful but also very practical. It is a great way of having all your garden herbs close together in your garden. The whole spiral takes up about a meter or two in diameter and you are able to grow up to twenty different herbs in that same spiral. As I think you might have figured, a herbal spiral, spirals up to about a meter in height.

We first dug a hole and placed big rocks in the hole and covered it up again. This is to prevent the herbal spiral from sinking in. Then we started building the drystone walls. You basically, gradually, built up the walls, while creating a spiral.
Tip: If you want to use cement to secure the stones, that is no problem at all. The herbs will love the alkalinity of the cement.

The idea is to plant/seed the herbs which need the least water right at the top (ex. rosemary) and then gradually place the herbs which need more water downwards until you reach the bottom, there you plant/seed the herbs which need the most water (ex. mint).

A nice idea, which we did not do, is to create a small, little pond at the bottom. This way you create an extra ideal area for herbs which thrive in an area which is flooded. For example, lemon balm would love to be there. Just a little tip; make sure to either have frogs or fish in there to prevent mosquitoes from breeding in the pond.

*We absolutely loved building these. I learned lots, pushed personal boundaries and enjoyed working outside and having my hands in the dirt, every single day.*